# Exercise:  Creating the database and data

Let’s start this exercise by opening a terminal window/command prompt.  We will create a new database named **RockStarDay2**, create tables within the database, and populate the tables with data. We will do this using a .sql script file that contains a series of SQL commands.  We will pipe the instructions stored within a file named **rockstar-database-and-data.sql**. In this way, we can all work from the exact same database schema (structure) and data.  The tables will look familiar.  We have an **Individual**, **Band**, etc. tables in the database.  

- Fork the **mysql-camp-student** repo:  [https://github.com/jrs-innovation-center/mysql-camp-student](https://github.com/jrs-innovation-center/mysql-camp-student)
- Using terminal, clone your fork, change to the **sql-scripts** directory, and run the following command to pipe the sql commands from the **rockstar-database-and-data.sql** file to the MySQL database server.    

  ```
  $ git clone <your forked repo>
  $ cd mysql-camp-student
  $ cd sql-scripts
  $ mysql < rockstar-database-and-data.sql -u root -p -h 0.0.0.0 -P 3306
  ```

  - `–h` this is the host where the MySQL Server application is running.  In this course, the MySQL Database Server is your host machine.  
  -	`–u` the MySQL user name.  
  - `–p` Leave this blank. You will be prompted for the password:  `mypassword`

- Connect to the database server using the **mysql** CLI/client.  Select our new **RockStarDay2** database and run some commands to explore the tables.  _The table names are case sensitive_!

  ```
  $ mysql -u root -p -h 0.0.0.0 -P 3306
  mysql> USE RockStarDay2;
  mysql> SHOW TABLES;
  mysql> DESCRIBE Band;
  mysql> SELECT * FROM Band;
  mysql> quit
  ```

  > On your own time, check out the following content within the online MySQL Documentation for more guidance on executing SQL statements from a text file: http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.0/en/mysql-batch-commands.html



[Home](/)  |  [SQL Intro](/9-sql-intro/)  |  [Next](/9-sql-intro/2)
