# Exercise:  SQL Wildcards

You can use SQL Wildcards to help filter your data in the `WHERE` clause.  Wildcards follow the `LIKE` operator and allow you to apply pattern matching to perform the filtering of data.    

<table>
  <tr>
    <th>WIldcard</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`%`</td>
    <td>Use % to match any string. <br> Example: `SELECT * FROM Band WHERE Name LIKE ‘%Stones’;`   <br>This query will return all band records that have a name that ends in ‘Stones’. <br>Here is another example that returns all individuals with the first name begins in ‘L%’.  <br>`SELECT * FROM Individual WHERE FirstName LIKE ‘L%’;`</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`_`</td>
    <td>The underscore or  `_` can be used as a substitution for a single character. This query would return anyone with the first name of ‘Rob’ or ‘Bob’. <br>`SELECT * FROM Individual WHERE FirstName LIKE ‘_ob’;`</td>
  </tr>
</table>


- Try out some wildcard characters in your `WHERE` clauses.  Let’s warm up by running the following queries.  

  0. `SELECT * FROM Band WHERE Name LIKE ‘The%’;`
  0. `SELECT * FROM Band WHERE Name LIKE ‘%Stones’;`
  0. `SELECT * FROM Individual WHERE FirstName Like ‘__ck’;`

- Now try your hand at deciphering the requirements into your own SQL statements:

  0.	Find all bands that have an ‘and’ in the middle of their band name like ‘Jason and the Scorchers’.  
  0.	Find people who have a three letter first name that is like ‘Tim’ or ‘Kim’ or ‘Jim’.  
  0.	Find all bands that end with ‘s’ like ‘The Beatles’ or ‘The Rolling Stones’ or ‘Pixies’.  

- Put the queries into your 'select exercise' file.  
- Save and commit your changes
- Push your changes to your fork on Github.  


[Home](/)  |  [SQL Intro](/9-sql-intro/)  |  [Prev](/9-sql-intro/4)   |  [Next: Joins](/10-joins/)
