# Exercise: Using an INNER JOIN

Let’s create and populate a new database named **baseball**.  Your **mysql-camp-student** repo contains a sql script file named **baseball.sql**.  Use this file to create the database by piping the instructions stored within the file to the **mysql** CLI/client.

- Using terminal, change to the **sql-scripts** directory, and run the following command to pipe the sql commands from the **baseball.sql** file to the MySQL database server via the **mysql** CLI/client.    

  ```
  $ cd sql-scripts
  $ mysql < baseball.sql -u root -p -h 0.0.0.0 -P 3306
  ```

  - `–h` this is the host where the MySQL Server application is running.  In this course, the MySQL Database Server is your host machine.  
  -	`–u` the MySQL user name.  
  - `–p` Leave this blank. You will be prompted for the password: `mypassword`

- Connect to the database server and query the **baseball** database using the **mysql** CLI/client.  Select our new **baseball** database and run some commands to explore the tables. _The table names are case sensitive_!

  ```
  $ mysql -u root -p -h 0.0.0.0 -P 3306
  mysql> show databases;
  mysql> use baseball;
  mysql> SHOW TABLES;
  mysql> DESCRIBE team;
  mysql> quit
  ```

- Open the **baseball.sql** file within a text editor and examine its contents.  Note the structures of the tables, its foreign keys and the data that is placed into the tables.  Note the `CREATE VIEW` statements, too.

-	Create a separate `SELECT` statement to retrieve all the rows and columns from each of the tables.  

  - `Select * from player;`
  - `Select * from team;`
  - `Select * from batting;`
  - `Select * from roster;`

- Create a `SELECT` statement that joins the **batting** table to the **team** table like this:

  ```
  SELECT team.ID
  , team.TeamName
  , batting.TeamID
  , batting.Rank
  , batting.BattingAvg
  FROM team
  INNER JOIN batting ON team.ID = batting.TeamID;
  ```

- Create a `SELECT` statement that joins the **batting** table to the **player** table.  Which player has a batting average of 331?
- Create a `SELECT` statement that joins the **player** table to the **roster** table.
- Add another join to the previous statement by joining the team table to the **roster** table.  List the players on the Boston Red Sox roster.   If you are unsure, skip this step and try the next three steps, then come back and try this step.  
- A _View_ is virtual table in that it contains rows of data from other tables and view.  Another way to think of a view is that it’s `SELECT` statement that has been given a name.  The **baseball** database contains a couple of views.  One of them is named **vTeamRoster**.   The **vTeamRoster** view joins the **roster**, **team**, and **player** tables together.   Execute the following statement:  

  ```
  SELECT * FROM vTeamRoster;
  ```
- Execute the following statement to display the columns used within the view: `DESCRIBE vTeamRoster;`
- Execute the following statement display the sql statement that makes up the view:  `SHOW CREATE VIEW vTeamRoster;`

-  Save and commit your changes
-  Push your changes to your fork on Github.  


Study the following materials: [Introduction to database views](http://www.mysqltutorial.org/introduction-sql-views.aspx)


[Home](/)  |  [Joins](/10-joins/)  |  [Next](/10-joins/2)
