# Exercise:  Using the DELETE statement

- Create a single `SELECT` statement to identify the `ID` value for Dee Dee Ramone.  
- Use the `ID` value for Dee Dee to construct a `DELETE FROM` statement to delete Dee Dee’s row from the **Individual** table.  Execute the `DELETE` statement.  

## Using the IN operator to delete multiple records

Now it’s time to get fancy by using the `IN` operator within a `WHERE` clause to identify multiple rows.  The `IN` operation is used to test whether or not a value is ‘in’ the list.

- Create the following `SELECT` statement to see how many rows are ‘in’ the list:

  ```
  SELECT ID, FirstName, LastName
  FROM Individual
  WHERE LastName IN (‘Ramone’, ‘Jennings’,’Presley’);
  ```

- Using the `SELECT` statement above, change the `SELECT` statement to a `DELETE` statement.  Execute the `DELETE` statement.  

If a corresponding row existed for an individual within the **IndividualBand** table, what would happen to the row in the **IndividualBand** table when the row was deleted in the **Individual** table?  Would the foreign key constraint defined on the **IndividualBand** table prevent the row from being deleted?  How can we answer this question?  We need a way to view the metadata for the **IndividualBand** table.  We can use the `SHOW `statement to display database metadata.  It’s helpful for obtaining a picture of how a table was constructed.  

- Run the following `SHOW` statements and study the results:

  ```
  SHOW TABLES FROM RockStarDay2;
  SHOW COLUMNS FROM IndividualBand;
  SHOW  CREATE TABLE IndividualBand;  
  ```

[Home](/)  |  [DELETE](/15-delete/)  |  [Next](/16-updates/)
