# Exercise: Connecting to MySQL

In this exercise we will learn how to talk with the MySQL Server via the **mysql** program within a terminal/bash/command prompt/CLI window.  A terminal, also referred to as a terminal emulator or a terminal app in OS X, is a purely text-based system and provides an environment for Unix shells, which allows the user to interact with the operating system of any Unix-like computer in a text-based manner through the command line interface to the operating system.  MySQL works with Windows, as well.  This means you can install the MySQL database server on a Windows machine, as well as, use the various client applications like mysql program within a command prompt (terminal window).  

1.	In OS X, open the terminal, command prompt, etc.  I like to launch terminal by using Spotlight search in OS X, searching for “terminal”.   If you are using Windows, open a command prompt.

  > By this time you should have already installed the MySQL server and Workbench on your local machine.  If you have not, do so now.

  Use the **mysql** program from a command prompt (Unix/MacOSX termal window).  **mysql** is the MySQL Command-Line Tool. mysql is a simple SQL shell with input line editing capabilities.

  ```
  $ mysql --host host_name --password --user user_name
  ```
  - `--host`, `–h`  Connect to MySQL server on given host where the MySQL Server application is running.  In this course, the MySQL Database Server is your host (local) machine.  Since the host is running in Docker we need to provide a host value of `0.0.0.0`.

  - `--user`, `–u` MySQL user name to use when connecting to server.  If using Unix this is the same as the Unix login name.  If you want to use the Unix login name as the user name, you can omit the `–u` option.  For now you will probably want to use the `root` superuser.  

  - `--password`, `–p` you could provide the password directly as part of the command (be careful! no spaces after –p) BUT for security purpose don’t do this.  By not providing the value for the password, **mysql** will prompt you for the password without echoing the password to the screen.

2. Let’s connect!  

	- `host_name` – Since the host is running in Docker we need to provide a host value of `0.0.0.0`.
  - `user_name` – Use `root`.
  - `password` – we don’t want to display the value on the screen as we type. Just provide the `--password` option and mysql will prompt you for the password while protecting the information as you type.

  ```
  $ mysql --user root --password --host 0.0.0.0 --port 3306
  ```
  or

  ```
  $ mysql -u root -p -h 0.0.0.0 -P 3306
  ```

 - After you connect you should see the mysql prompt

  ```
  mysql>
  ```
3.  Let’s quit the mysql application (not the server) by entering `quit` at the `mysql>` prompt.

  ```
  mysql> quit
  ```
