# Exercise:  Add individuals to a band
-	Let’s use the **RockStarDay2** database.  Use a `SELECT` statement to list the contents of the **IndividualBand** table:

  ```
  Select * from IndividualBand;
  ```

The contents of **IndividualBand** is kind of hard to decipher, right?  Luckily, a view has been provided that joins together the **Individual, IndividualBand**, and **Band** tables into a view that relates the 3 tables together.   A view is the result set of a stored query.  A view defines a virtual table.  You can use a `SELECT` statement to query a view in the same way, you query a regular database table.  The view’s name is **BandMembers**.  

- Go ahead and query **BandMembers** by running the following SQL statement:

  ```
  Select * from BandMembers;
  ```

Let’s play around with the `INSERT INTO` statement by associating a **Band** with an **Individual**.  The **IndividualBand** table helps to relate bands to individuals.  

- Using the **RockStarDay2** database, add Eric Clapton (ID = 31) to the band Cream (ID = 12) by executing the following SQL DML statement:

  ```
  INSERT INTO IndividualBand (BandID, IndividualID) Values (12,31);
  ```

- After you have added Eric Clapton to the band Cream, re-query the **BandMembers** view by issuing a `SELECT` statement on the **BandMembers** view.  

- Are you curious about the contents of the **BandMembers** view?  Would you like to see how it is defined?  Run the following SQL statement and view the entrails of the **BandMembers** view:

  ```
  SHOW CREATE VIEW BandMembers;
  ```

  The results are a little hard to decipher but its good experience, anyway.

- Use the table below to add the individuals to their respective bands:

  <table>
    <tr>
      <th>Individual (ID)</th>
      <th>Band (ID)</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Buck Owens (47)</td>
      <td>The Buckeroos (22)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Johnny Cash (8)</td>
      <td>The Highwaymen (21)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Waylon Jennings (39)</td>
      <td>The Highwaymen (21)</td>
    </tr>
  </table>
