# Exercise:  More than one way to INSERT INTO

##  INSERT INTO VALUES

Let’s use a form of the `INSERT INTO` statement where we can add multiple records at once by including multiple sets of values.  Each data set is wrapped in parenthesis and separated by a comma.  Here is an example of an INSERT INTO statement that adds multiple rows into the Band table.

```
INSERT INTO Band
(Name,YearFormed,IsTogether,Genre)
VALUES
('Rolling Stones', '1962', 1, 'Rock')
, ('Beatles', '1960', 0, 'Rock')
, ('Traveling Wilburys', '1988', 0, 'Rock')
, ('Nirvana', '1987', 0, 'Grunge');
, ('REM', '1980', 0, 'Alternative');

```

- Go ahead and build three `INSERT INTO` statements.
  - One should add some musicians into the **Individual** table.  
  - One should add some bands in which the musicians play into the **Band** table.
  - One should relate the musicians to the bands by adding rows into the **IndividualBand** table.  

## INSERT INTO SELECT

The `INSERT INTO SELECT` syntax allows you to `SELECT` rows from a table or tables and use those rows to add rows into a table.  Let’s use a predefined SQL script file which creates a new table named **Ramones** and populates that table with rock stars.  Once the table has been created, we can author an `INSERT INTO SELECT` data manipulation language (DML) SQL statement to `SELECT` from the **Ramones** table and `INSERT INTO` the existing **Individual** table.  

Here is an example of the syntax:

```
INSERT INTO TableA (ID, Name, Description)
SELECT TableB.ID, TableB.Name, TableB.Desc
FROM TableB
WHERE TableB.Price > 9.99
ORDER BY TableB.NAME;
```

- 	Using Atom, open the **ramones.sql** script file within your **sql-scripts** folder.  Inspect the SQL in the file.
-	Using Terminal, ensure you are no longer connected to the MySQL Server.  If necessary, use the `quit` CLI command to exit the **mysql** CLI client.  
- Using Terminal, ensure you are in the **sql-scripts** directory.  
-	Connect to the MySQL Database Server and run the **ramones.sql** script. This will create a table named **Ramones** within the **RockStarDay2** database and populate the table with some individuals.

-	Using the **mysql** CLI client, connect to the MySQL database server.

- Once you are at the `mysql>` prompt, switch to the **RockStarDay2** database and create a `SELECT` statement that retrieves the rows form the new **Ramones** table.

With the Ramones table created and populated, we can author the `INSERT INTO SELECT` statement.  This will copy the records from the **Ramomes** table into the **Individual** table.  We start with `INSERT INTO Individual` to identify the table we are adding rows into.  Next, we need to list the columns for the **Individual** table.  At this point your sql statement should look something like this.  Notice we have left off the **ID** field since its value will auto increment.  We also leave out the **DateAdded** field since that data will be defaulted with the current date for each row inserted.

```
INSERT INTO Individual (LastName, FirstName, BirthDate, DeceasedDate)
```

We are not yet done. We use add a `SELECT` statement to grab the data from the **Ramones** table.  Be sure to get the order correct on the columns from the Ramones table.  At this point your SQL statement should look like this:

```
INSERT INTO Individual (LastName, FirstName, BirthDate, DeceasedDate)
SELECT LastName, FirstName, BirthDate, DeceasedDate
FROM Ramones
ORDER BY DateAdded;
```

- Fire it up!  Run the SQL statement to insert the rows!  Verify by querying the **Individual** table.

## Last inserted ID

After a statement that successfully inserts an automatically generated AUTO_INCREMENT value, you can find that value by using the LAST_INSERT_ID() function.  The value returned is on a per connection basis which means this value isn’t affected by other clients, even if they generate AUTO_INCREMENT values of their own. This is a good thing because it means you can retrieve your value with the LAST_INSERT_ID() function and not be interfered with by others’ activity.    Let’s try out!

- In the **RockStarDay2** database, the **Individual** table has an auto incremented ID column.  Go ahead and verify this with the following statement:

  ```
  DESCRIBE INDIVIDUAL;  
  ```

- Run the following `SELECT` statement to check the **ID** values for all the **Individuals**.  Note the highest value in the **ID** column:

  ```
  SELECT ID, FIRSTNAME, LASTNAME FROM INDIVIDUAL;
  ```

- Run the following `SELECT` statement to grab the largest ID value from the table:  

  ```
  SELECT MAX(ID) as LargestValue
  FROM INDIVIDUAL;
  ```

- Now that we have verified the **ID** column is marked as `auto_increment`, we can insert a row with an `INSERT` statement and then follow up with a call to the `LAST_INSERT_ID()` function.  Let’s write an `INSERT` statement to add `Duane Allman` into the **Individual** table.  

  > In 2003, Rolling Stone magazine ranked Allman at #2 in their list of the 100 greatest guitarists of all time, second only to Jimi Hendrix.  Duane’s birthdate was 11/20/1946 and he died in a motorcycle accident on October 29, 1971.  He was 24.  

- After you have successfully added ol’ Skydog to the database, use the following statement to discover his **ID** value.

  ```
  SELECT LAST_INSERT_ID();
  ```

[Home](/)  |  [SELECT INSERT](/14-selectinsert/)  |  [Prev](/14-selectinsert/1)  |  [Next](/15-delete/)
